Have different constructor for "Data" module and "Transform" module (#1283)
insightsengineering/teal: vignettes/data-transform-as-shiny-module.Rmd

---
title: "Data Transform as shiny Module"
author: "NEST CoreDev"
output: 
  rmarkdown::html_vignette:
    toc: true
vignette: >
  %\VignetteIndexEntry{Data Transform as shiny Module}
  %\VignetteEngine{knitr::rmarkdown}
  %\VignetteEncoding{UTF-8}
---

## Introduction

> The input data supplied by the app developer in the `data` argument of the `init` function is passed through the filter panel and the filtered data is supplied to the all modules.
> It is important to note that the filter panel only performs one kind of computation on the datasets, it filters the data based on the user interaction.
> However, there are use cases where we need to provide a more customized transformation options for the app user.
> Historically, customised data transformations was achieved in the teal apps using the encoding panel, where the module developer provides custom UI and server logic for the data transformation.
> But, with the new `teal_transform_module` function, it is now possible to provide a more dynamic transformation capability which can be customised by the app developer and not just the module developer.
> 
> The `teal_transform_module()` function can be used to create a `teal_data_module` object that is basically a shiny module where the module server function takes in the data from the filter panel and returns the data after applying the custom transformation logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When data transformations need to occur inside the teal app, they typically happen within the teal module development by the teal module developer. This results in the transformation code being tightly coupled with the teal module. Any changes to the data transformation logic require updating the teal module, which can impact the teal app development until the module is updated.

With the new `teal_transform_module()` function, it is now possible to provide a more dynamic data transformation capability that can be customized by the teal app developer, not just the teal module developer.

The `teal_transform_module()` function is essentially a Shiny module that takes `ui` and `server` arguments and can be provided to the `transformer` argument in a `module()`. When provided, teal will execute the data transformation logic for the specified module when it is loaded. 

In addition, this approach makes it easier for teal app developers to handle additional data transformations while using the teal modules R packages like `teal.modules.general` and `teal.modules.clinical`.

Let’s explore this new way to manage custom data transformations in teal apps.
```

Here's an alternative of how I think the introduction could be.

## Creating your first custom data transformation module

We initialize a simple teal app where we pass `iris` and `mtcars` as the input datasets.

```{r, message = FALSE, warning = FALSE}
library(teal)
```

```{r}
data <- teal_data() %>%
  within({
    iris <- iris
    mtcars <- mtcars
  })

app <- init(
  data = data,

>   modules = example_module()

Reviewer: Should we use a very simple `module()` so that it's clear that `transformer` is passed as an argument to this function?

Reviewer 2: Yes, I think vignette should elaborate more about creating `module` which consumes transformers.

I've updated description here:

)

if (interactive()) {
  shinyApp(app$ui, app$server)
}
```

Lets create a simple `teal_transform_module` that returns the first n number of rows of `iris` based on the user input.

We do this by creating the `ui` with the `numericInput` for the user to input the number of rows to be displayed.
In the `server` function we take in the reactive `data` and perform this transformation and return the new reactive `data`.

```{r}
library(teal)
data <- teal_data() %>%
  within({
    iris <- iris
    mtcars <- mtcars
  })

> my_transformers <- list(

Reviewer 2: I guess it makes sense, but let me think about this. Currently we have:
- `module` is wrapped by `modules` 
- `teal_slice` is wrapped `teal_slices`
- `teal_data_module` is not wrapped by anything
- `teal_transform_module` is wrapped by `list()`
